I received far more attention from the press than I
ever wanted.
I'd say 50% of it was accurate and 50% of it was
exploitation so I could sell the damn article.
Really? Yeah. You thought the exploitation was
that high? I thought the exploitation was
extremely high, particularly with some
individuals.
Who were the worst ones? I guess the worst one was a
communist reporter, Nicholas Tomlinson, from
the London Sunday Times,
who was killed in the Israeli conflict in 60-73,
October War 73. He got what he deserved. He,
I guess, was the worst because he got a full page on
me on the London Sunday Times and every paper here
in the United States and he wrote from fright,
total fabrication. Yeah, I was looking for a story
that Americans were killing civilians. So he rode
with me one afternoon in the helicopter and we got
in a few firefights.
Not at my request, but Westmoreland sent him down
to Depew and Depew bucked him off to me and I had him
in the back end of the helicopter when I was doing my
duty that day and I'd forgotten that he was there.
Wouldn't have made any difference anyway. I'd go
ahead and do what I had to do. And he wrote the
article. I mean, a full page on the London Sunday
Times. Zap, zap, general killing civilians and so
forth.
And the general said he'd rather do it. Wasn't
anything he'd rather do better than to go kill the
Kong and all that kind of crap, which was all
fabricated, all lies. He got what he was coming
from, Israelis. He got killed over in the Israeli
conflict. Did you ever write to the, was it in the
London Times you said? Yeah, it was the London
Times, but it was on the front page of every
newspaper in Houston and everyone in San
Francisco and Los Angeles and every damn place all
over the world. Did you overwrite and refute it?
No, hell no. You don't bother with that crap
because they're not going to print it anyway, you
see. The
Chief of Staff of the Army said I'd set back the
Army's public relations by three years or
something going forth. And my answer to that was,
well, General, must not been a very doing a very
good job if you're gonna let a communist-inspired
bastard lie like hell and I'd say the Army's in
pretty bad shape. What'd he say? He didn't say
anything. I never heard from him. Did you did the
Chief, did you write the Chief of Staff? No, I
didn't write anybody. I just didn't pay any damn
attention. I didn't know about it for maybe a month
later. Oh really? Oh yeah. And then the Air Force
agents picked up an article by a Navy, a Soviet Navy
lieutenant wrote a book, children's book for the
Soviet children, elementary school. Wrote a nice
little thin book about a lesson that had
three-eighths of an inch thick. Had pictures of
ducks and little girls picking flowers on the
front of the book and the inside of the book The
Story of the Number One Cannibal in the Vietnamese
War. And it was from this Tomlinson's article that
the Navy lieutenant had wrote this book for the
children of the Soviet Union.
OSS got a copy of it. You know, they got copies, I got
a copy of it, the Air Force sent me a copy, the
Special Agents of the Air Force. I sent it to my
mother, and I guess she didn't know what it was, and
threw it away, and I've never been able to get a
handle on another copy of that. Miss
Hollingsworth searched children's libraries in
the Soviet Union to try to find it, but it just so
happened that that had been removed everywhere
she went.
I had a bad taste in my mouth about that. Tell me
about some of the other press people that you dealt
with. Marty Safer. He
was all right. Hart from, I believe he was CBS. I
think he was NBC. NBC. Yeah, he was NBC. God, I can't
remember any more of them. They were all right.
They didn't hurt me. Did they try to do an accurate
job? Did the American press in general try to do an
accurate job? I thought the American press did a
fair job. I thought they did a fair job.
The best guys were guys with real common sense and
sound judgment and already had made enough money
that they could eat, you know. And that makes a
difference. Such as? Joe Alsop, he was the best.
Walter Cronkite, old Walter would get bad
information and fed to him and he just read off
every evening what somebody else had fed him to
say. And sometimes he'd say good things,
sometimes he'd say bad things. But did you meet
him? I knew Walter, I guess I met him. Did he come
over to Vietnam when you were there? I don't know
whether I met him at a press club in Washington or
whether it was over there. I can't remember now.
He's an awful good man.
I was trying to think of some of the guys from Wall
Street, but I can't think of their names now.
BBC was never very helpful.
British Broadcasting Company. I think we got
pretty bad press from all of the Europeans.
Well, I'll tell you, you asked a question I haven't
answered yet, and that is, should they be over
there? And the answer is absolutely not. Who
should give the news to the American people? Let
it come from an ambassador from the area who's
doing the operating, the civilian side of it. In
other words, it should have been handled more like
this recent Falkland crisis. One hundred
percent. Now there, it was a group of
professionals down there allowed to run the war.
You see? And what's the end result? You win. Get her
over with. You know, every time that happens or the
Israelis do something like that, it just makes us
look like a bunch of damn fools over here. I'm
talking about our bureaucratic,
administrative, governmental, uh, everybody in
the damned act, uh, when he's, uh, everybody's
sticking his finger in the damn pie.
And we somehow or another, we gotta get a hold of
ourselves and quit looking like fools to the rest
of the world and quit trying to go buy, uh,
friendship. We don't want any friends. We want
people to respect us. that's what we want. And we
don't want to go buy it either with money or try to do
it because we should have learned a lesson by now,
don't you think? After multi, multi,
multi-billion dollars worth of taxpayers' money
trying to buy friendship when what we really ought
to have was demanding that people do things right
and them respecting us for it.
that's what it's all about respect now
in the world today and I still travel throughout
the world really and truly no one respects the
United States isn't that a terrible thing I
want to ask you A couple last questions about
Vietnam, then we're going to move on. A lot of
people blame a lot of people for losing that war.
Why do you think that we lost, obviously, because
the military wasn't allowed to fight the war? Who
do you blame? Congress of the United States of
America, who represents all the people.
Congress of the United States. who represents all
the people. And I've talked to many of them and they
agree with me that that's what it's all about. I've
had the most sincere of them and the older ones tell
me, General, we'll never do it again.
Well, I'm not so sure. Hell, they'll all be gone in
another 20 years, so what the hell are you up
against the next time? And what the hell do the
Congress of the United States or the Army or
administration of the American people ever
remember from one conflict to the other. Nothing.
That brings me to the last question I want to ask.
What did we learn from Vietnam? What did the Army
learn from Vietnam? We relearned what we knew from
Korea, and in Korea we relearned what we knew from
World War II. and I guess that the next conflict
we'll get in we'll probably relearn what we forgot
in Vietnam.
And what's that? And that is that discipline and
training and availability of weapons and
ammunition and high standards of performance
during peacetime and wartime bring success.
And that people are important and don't push them
beyond their capabilities and the leadership has
to thoroughly and clearly be trained in such a
manner that they can understand the capabilities
of man.
That's the way I see it. When you returned from
Vietnam, President Nixon gave you your third
star. Is that right?
My third star came in July of 73, and I can't
remember who was president then. I don't know. He
was. I think he still was.
He did exactly what he told General Haig to pass on
to me that he was going to do.
How did you feel about that? You mean about the
president? About the third star. Well, I felt,
just as I'd said to General Abrams, I've got only
one eye left and I don't know whether I can see well
enough to do what needs to be done to command
250,000 men or not.
But my eye got a little better after a little rest. I
got it pretty well patched back together.
He sent me down to Fort Sam Houston. I had a deputy
commander down there until I could give me a chance
to, I had to rest up.
And then you went off to Korea. Yeah, I went to
Korea. Korea was your last major assignment from
July of 73 to February of 76. That was the last
command assignment. I had another assignment
after that. Yeah, but that was your last major
assignment. Yeah, major assignment.
What did you see as the problems there when you
arrived? What was your mission? Bad strategy, bad
defense concept, bad policies by the United
States for 23 years since 1953. Poor support for
the American Union, poor support for the Koreans I
walked into the United States Army Ammunition
Depot and I found some, in this one area, some 3,000
8-inch artillery rounds and only 100 fuses.
When I got through looking at the whole ammunition
in support of that front, I short 156,000 fuses for
155. millimeter
artillery and eight-inch artillery.
What'd you do? I tore the damn place apart.
And I found Honest John Rockets with corroded
fins. I found the Honest John Rocket Battalion
with 20 rounds of rockets that everybody said was
ready to go and the corrosion had eaten up the fins.
And they were totally unserviceable. But that was
no different. That was bad, but that wasn't the
worst thing. The worst thing was a mission for the—
American Eighth Army of
and the Koreans and the assistance of the Koreans
of defending the Republic of Korea and the capital
city of Seoul which consists of eight million
Koreans located 25 miles from the DMZ and their
policy And their concept for descending the
capital city of Seoul in the Republic of Korea was
to fall back on successive lines.
And the last line was buttressed up against the
capital city of Seoul, and I merely asked the
question, how do you defend the capital city of
Seoul if your last offensive position is on the
northern outskirts of it.
I said, have you gentlemen here ever heard of
attacks by fire? Have you ever heard the communist
theory that if you can physically defend the
capital city of Seoul from us, We'll disallow it to
you because we'll destroy it by fire.
So, with the great support of President Park
Chung-hee, not so much U.S.,
I bulldozed through which approved by the
Secretary of Defense and the DMZ up there, I
bulldozed through a new offensive training
program, a new offensive concept
for the defense of the Republic of Korea and 37
million people. Be damned the American policy,
the ambassador, and even General Stilwell, my
commander, has helpful as he wanted to be, he also
had to look at the State Department political side
of things. But before I left there, for the first
time since MacArthur went to Yellow, there was a
plan that had been exercised in the field
attacking to the north.
And I did that. I guess a lot of people take credit
for it now, but I tell you what, I fought day and
night to get that done single-handedly against
the United States. Why was the United States
against this? They had a policy of falling back
because they were afraid the Koreans might attack
the North Communists.
So their policy was, don't give them anything.
disallow them, they actually disallowed them
over the years prior to my presence there,
disallowed them the facts of life on the real
capabilities of the Communist North.
So they were afraid the South Koreans would get an
offensive plan and attack the North and get the
United States in a war. That's State Department
crap. And you cannot lie to a sovereign
government. I don't care who they are.
And I would not put up with that at all. I told the
Koreans the truth. I broke the green door down from
a standpoint of them having information that they
ought to know.
about the strength of the North.
You see, our policy was don't tell them anything
and they won't ask us for any more arms. We would
say, oh, you've got enough. You don't need no more.
The enemy's only got this amount. You don't need no
more. In their fear, if you give them too much,
they'll go attack the North. Well, what did Henry
Kissinger, the Secretary of State, have to say
about your policy?
When the May collapse came in 73,
no, I guess it was a little later on, was it 74, when
the Vietnamese took Saigon, I mean the Communists
took Saigon, Must have been May of 74, yeah. May of
74. No, it was early in 75. Or was it 75? Yeah, 75. It
was May of 75. May of 75, okay. Yeah, let's see. 72 is
when we fought. Yeah, it took them three years to
get their goddamn offensive capability back
together. That's That's how badly we beat hell out
of them in 72. Their offensive capability we
destroyed. It took them three years to put it back
together. That's right. That's right. May of
75. President of Korea
said,
Are you going to let down... South Korea as you did
Vietnam. That's what he asked you? Yep. He asked
our government this. He asked our authorities
this. He asked ambassadors this. He asked me
personally this. I had a personal relationship
with him, which the United States didn't like
worth a damn. Why not?
He was the president, and I was the only field army
commander, and they had an ambassador there, and
they had a four-star general there, and you know
how it goes. But they had nothing they could do
about it. Nothing anybody could do about it. But he
said, what are you going to do? Are you going to let
us down, same thing? So we had— What did you
respond? I said, no. I said, no. I said, we had no
mutual security pact validated by the Congress
with the Vietnamese.
He said, but your Congress,
your president has, you're going to treat us like
you did Taiwan. You had a mutual security pact with
Taiwan. That's a good point. I said, Mr.
President, I came over here and I said, I'd fight
and die with your units out here to defend this
country. And that's what I intend to do. And I said,
I worked to change the strategy in which you
supported me. And I said, by God, we've got
ammunition in here. We've got the air power so we
know we can get it in here. And I said, I just want you
to know that I am totally convinced that we will
live up to our treaty in the case of Korea.
Well, of course, this word went back to Washington
by our ambassadors on the 4th, so what we really
created was an assurance program to reassure
Korea that we would do it. Ford got in the act and
said, by God, we'll bomb the hell out of the
bastards. Kissinger said, we'll bomb the hell out
of the bastards. Schlesinger, in defense, said,
we'll bomb the hell out of the bastards that come
down there. And, of course, my whole strategy, in
which everybody was against, which is now in
being, fell right into the hands of saying, God
damn it, We're not giving up anything. I said, Mr.
President, we're not going to give up one inch of
your precious land. He picked up on that and
started telling the Korean people.
And every governor of every province I visited, I
made speeches to them. In every province, I
visited industry. I was known by all of them.
The new strategy of taking the offensive should
the enemy attempt to cross the DMZ and killing them
with firepower,
the introduction of B-52s, Introduction of
F-111s over there bombing on the ground so
everybody could see them. The introduction of
fighter-bomber demonstrations right near the
DMZ. The coordination, teach them how to
consolidate artillery fire and time on target. I
fired 33 battalions over there one time to show
them. And the little Korean soldiers got up out of
their holes and clapped and sang because they knew
For the first time, by God, we're not going to be run
out of these positions. Somebody said, why didn't
you fire 33 battalions? I said, well, I had to do one
better than I did in World War II some 25 years ago
when I laid 32 battalions on 22 Tiger Royals. And I
said, that's exactly the reason. And of course,
nobody in the American Army has ever seen anything
like that before. unheard of but i did it in korea
you lined them all up and just let it go no you move
them in you don't line them up you move them in
they're sitting everywhere but they're sitting
many four and five miles apart in depth and all back
over 33 battalions and you just blow the whistle
tot time on target
You hear guns way back to the rear, boom, boom,
boom, boom, boom, boom, and then ones up front
finally shooting and every round hitting at the
same time. It's the most awesome sight that you can
see. It's equivalent to about a 10 KT warhead in
conventional firepower. And this is a
demonstration to the South Korean people and to
their military what I'm talking about about
winning. They left no doubts in their mind.
So that brought on in 12 months time forward
defense which has been accepted. Everybody talks
about forward defense. Forward defense is
Destroying the offensive capability as quick as,
or the enemy's capability as quickly as possible.
Destroying his attack as quickly as possible and
then attacking yourself. Again, with
a high volume of fire. Don't go bring over ten
American divisions. You don't need any damn
American divisions. You got more, all the
American divisions you need over an hour at one.
And that's for present purposes. that you're
there and that you're going to stay and you're
going to fight and die with them.
What you do bring over is firepower delivery
stuff, air power, B-52, F-111. Now, right after
you left and— That's where I won the money, Mr.
Quintus. As a result of that, in 12 months' time,
all the thousands and thousands of acres of fallow
land behind the DMZ was opened up and the president
believed so much in what I was doing that he put the
Department of Agriculture, Korean Department of
Agriculture and irrigation people up there and
started irrigating all this land in 12 months.
They had received, for the first time in 4,000
years, it had become self-sufficient in rice
grain. In addition to that, We started a
reforestation program. They burned all the trees
to stay warm because they had no clothing during
the war, and the enemy did likewise. And so it's
time now to reforest, get forests growing like
they used to be with pine going forth in the
mountains and all over the place. And each of my
three Lieutenant General Corps commanders took
on a responsibility of pulling necessary
soldiers out in his Corps area of responsibility.
And over the course of the last two years of the era,
they planted 15 or 20 million pine seedlings, of
which They got from 80 to 90% growth
rate in each of the different core areas.
Fantastic. The president built new roads for me.
The governor came to me and he said, sir, I want to
honor you with this gift here, he said, governor of
the province. He said, the president down
yesterday, I've been trying for five years to get a
new road up to Tan Du Shan, from Wu John Bu to Tan Du
Shan for the second infantry division, U.S.
infantry division. And said, the president came
down yesterday and made a speech about you and said
that I had asked for a road and that he was going to
get it. And they built it. Dedicated it. Then he
turned to me and he said, any other roads you want,
go on into it. And I said, yes sir, one out here
connecting my first corps and my fifth corps. And
he turned to the minister of construction and that
was built in my honor and finished a few months
after I left. No kidding. Yeah.
And uh,
It was a very heartwarming thing for me to fight my
own country and the interests of my own country and
the interests of those 37 million people over
there and get something done that was right and
proper. At first, the State Department, you said,
was against your policy, but then after 1970— My
concept was strategy. and after 1975 and the fall
of Saigon, then they turned around and they
accepted your policy and it fit right in. Is that
correct? Yes, exactly right. And then they got off
your backs. They got off my back then, yes. It was
kind of anxious for me to leave because they
weren't so damn sure that I wouldn't I think they
felt that I might entice the Koreans into
attacking to the north. Really? Oh, yeah. I mean,
you can't imagine what goes through the minds of
some of the cheap people we got in this country in
high places. Honest to God. For example— You mean
you got the word back from the State Department?
No, I did not get that back from the State
Department. I got that from members of the— of the
American staff in Korea.
I got word also that one of my corps commanders and
I, the first tunnel we found over there, that
there's some question about whether or not that
had been dug at my insistence.
Tunnel for what? tunnel from the north at the
communist north that dug under the DMZ so they
could get slip into South Korea we found this
tunnel and then we found another much larger one
and some of the midget staff people of both the
state and the army were mouthing around that
General Hollingsworth and the Corps commander
had instigated the tunnel on their own.
Oh, you can't imagine what you have to go through as
a public servant. Did you formally have to
respond? Hell, no. I tell them to go to hell. I said,
well, you ignorant bastards. I mean, someone
called and asked you? Oh, no, what they do, they
pass it to your staff. They don't bother you.
They're afraid to talk to you, you see. They're
afraid to talk to me. But they staff the staff and
say, well, there's been discuss down here as to
whether or not this is a fake thing and that your
boss and the corps commander didn't dig this
tunnel on their own. Jeez. You've got some cheap
people in this country. You've got some ruthless
people. Who do you think originated this? Oh,
somebody that didn't want this tunnel to happen.
Who do you think came up with this rumor? Oh, hell.
Who's responsible? I don't know. I tell you what,
you never pay any attention to this sort of thing.
Then they didn't want anybody to come up and see it.
The U.S. didn't.
Because they still didn't want to believe it.
But the Koreans sent people up there to see them
anyway. So after the U.S. looked like a bunch of
goddamn fools for a while, well, then they say, all
right, I guess we can let a few people go up see it.
Who's they? The ambassador? State department
officials and high military officials in Korea.
Who was the senior military officer in Korea?
Let's see, I think General Stilwell was at the
time, but that doesn't necessarily say General
Stilwell did it. Maybe he had some major general
staff down there. You never did know whether
Stilwell really meant that or some underling did
that, you see.
Because Stilwell was a damn sharp, common sense
sort of fella.
But he also got some pressures from the
ambassador. The ambassador's the number one guy
over there, you know. and so you never know what
kind of pressures he gets from the ambassador.
He has to respond to him. Let's talk a little bit
about, we've already talked about how you got
along with the president of Korea. Tell me about
the relations that you had with the people of
Korea. You said you visited factories. Did you go
out and sort of campaign for your strategy, or
what? No, they invited me. You see, my
headquarters was 80%, I believe, 60%, can't
remember the percentage now, somewhere between
60% and 80% Korean. My deputy was a major general,
Korean. My chief of operations was a brigadier
general, Korean. My chief of intelligence was an
American colonel. My chief of staff was an
American brigadier general. The deputy chief of
staff was a Korean colonel. So, on a key position,
my chief of supply and logistics was American with
a Korean deputy. Korean in a key slot, the deputy
was American. Wherever the American was a key
slot, the deputy was a Korean. So, I was the
commander of the field army, and the deputy was a
major general Korean. So, they know what the hell
is going on, and they keep all the Koreans advised,
you see. And so, most all this business of my
visiting amongst the people and going forth was my
interest in the people and their industry, which
had to participate in supporting what I needed
from the standpoint of
logistics support and supply and material for the
twelve Korean divisions that I commanded. I only
had one American division, but the other twelve
were were Korean, so it was all Korean. And the 2nd
Infantry Division, my American division, wasn't
going to fight anyway until I started attacking to
the north. Now I was going to let them, I had a plan to
let them attack to the north as a matter of honor for
the United States. You know, you can't have the
United States Army over there fighting a war and
them just sitting on their ass. What did you think
of the capability of the Korean forces?
One Korean division properly equipped can stand
off three Soviet divisions and two American
divisions. They're
the toughest little guys that you've ever seen in
your life.
We used 4,000 rounds of artillery in training each
year for our artillery battalion. They'd been
forced to by necessity and to conserve ammunition
because they never knew whether the United States
was gonna, until I was there, until the United
States was gonna run out on them or not. So they were
very conservative about their ammunition. But
they trained so well and would fire 300 to 600
rounds of artillery per battalion of 18 pieces and
they'd out-shoot the U.S. In the U.S., it would
shoot 4,000 rounds a year or more of training.
That's how good they are. They've got some, and I
prefaced my remarks earlier by having them
properly equipped. They need more secure voice
communications. They don't have that. They need
some air defense weapons. for their divisions.
They need new and better artillery ammunition.
They need better tank ammunition.
But as far as physical fitness, alertness,
readiness, leadership amongst themselves,
they're tops. After your return in 1977,
President Carter was thinking about bringing
some American troops home from Korea. What was
your—he didn't do it—what was your opinion? There
was a lot of resistance
from the military. What was your opinion? My
opinion was that the United States had announced
that They have a national interest in the Western
Pacific, Japan, Australia, the Malacca Straits,
for trade and for friendship and for many other
reasons we have national interest in the Western
Pacific. And they always come back and say in key
places, Japan. The defense of the Republic of
Korea is vital to the defense of Japan, absolutely
vital to the defense of Japan. Korea and the
peninsula is a very dangerous land. Surrounded by
communist Chinese,
Soviet communists, and a totalitarian communist
state of North Korea supported by China and the
Soviet Union. So it's a very dangerous peninsula.
And our presence there plays a major role in
maintaining stability in Northeast Asia. And why
play in the hands of the Communists by pulling
Americans out of there and then taking a chance on
the Chinese communists, South Korean communists
overwhelming the South Korean government and
then becoming a major threat to Japan and
Australia and the Malarca Straits along with the
Soviet fleet. Does that make any goddamn sense to
anybody? Only to a guy named Abramowitz who was
ambassador to Thailand who was the instigator of
trying to withdraw my headquarters and the
Americans for a long, long time. He sat over in the
Defense Department and he played footsie with
those coming in in the Carter administration and
this is one of the things that he perpetuated. He
got himself an ambassadorship out of it. I
testified along with him and General Vesey in the
Senate Armed Services against the withdrawal.
That gentleman right there, Senator Sam Nunn, and
his knowledge of what's needed to be done over
there, was a key instrumental guy in defeating the
whole damn thing and keeping them over there. And
there isn't any questions about that.
This Bromowitz went on to be the ambassador.